---
layout: page
title: Partners
---

Studio@Butler opened in Fall 2013, conceived and funded by a new partnership between Columbia University Libraries and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Its current and future programming is being shaped by a number of academic groups and faculty members at Columbia University invested in new modes of scholarship and teaching.

## Founding Organizations

**The Digital Humanities Center at Columbia University Libraries**. The DHC helps Columbia faculty and students incorporate advanced computer-based approaches into their research, publications and teaching. It offers scholars paths into the latest digital resources and technologies, often in combination with resources they create themselves. The Digital Scholarship Coordinator for the Humanities and History, Alex Gil (agil@columbia.edu) schedules talks, trainings, researchathons, labs, and many other happenings in the Studio.

**Columbia University’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Teaching Center**. The opening of the Studio has provided the GSAS Teaching Center a new home at the university, where it runs workshops for graduate students — some sequenced into tracks offering certification — as well as a range of presentations, course labs, and informal gatherings. Many of the Teaching Center’s programs emphasize the use of digital technologies for best practices in teaching and communication. Interim Director Mark Phillipson (mlp55@columbia.edu) programs Studio events for the Teaching Center.

## Partner Organizations

**The Columbia Center for Teaching and Learning**, dedicated to the purposeful use of technology in teaching, was founded in 1999. It partners with Columbia faculty across the university to design, implement, and assess a great range of pedagogical projects at the university. These projects include simulations, case studies, multimedia analysis platforms, training modules, and field-based tools. CTL runs RewirED in the Studio, a seminar series in which faculty and educational technologists discuss emerging tools and pedagogical applications of them. CTL also runs a number of evaluation programs in the Studio, assessing use and efficacy of its custom-designed educational environments.

**The Center for Digital Research and Scholarship** helps Columbia University scholars increase the utility and impact of their research and scholarship. Its services support open access publication, flexible conferencing, data management, and digital collaboration. CDRS runs the Scholarly Communication program as well as Columbia Libraries’ Academic Commons repository. Every Wednesday, CDRS offers Impact@Studio, a clinic that offers scholars and faculty individual consultation on leveraging digital tools to build their scholarly reputation and impact. It also runs data management workshops in the Studio.

## Faculty Advisors

**[Dennis Tenen](http://dennistenen.com/)**, Assistant Professor, Department of English and Comparative Literature. His research happens at the intersection of people, texts, and technology. His recent work appears on the pages of Computational Culture, boundary 2, Modernism/modernity, Public Books, and LA Review of Books on topics that range from book piracy to algorithmic composition, unintelligent design, and history of data visualization. He teaches a variety of classes in fields of literary theory, new media studies, and critical computing in the humanities. Tenen is a co-founder of Columbia's [Group for Experimental Methods in the Humanities](http://xpmethod.plaintext.in/) and author of the forthcoming Plain Text: The Poetics of Computation (Stanford UP, 2017).​

**Manan Ahmed**, Assistant Professor in the Department of History at Columbia University. He works on Space (the intersection of Geography, Landscape, and Place), Text (including Material and Visual culture), Narrative, History and Memory (ways in which past was employed discursively in Medieval and Early Modern texts). His research focus is South Asia and Islam: Intellectual History South Asia, Islam, Medieval and Early Modern Historiography and Cultural History. All of his articles can be accessed at Columbia's [Academic Commons](http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/catalog?f[author_facet][]=Ahmed,+Manan&sort=record_creation_date+desc&utf8=%E2%9C%93). All of his course syllabi can be accessed in his [Github page](https://github.com/mananahmed/syllabi). His book, [*A Book of Conquest: The Chachnama and Muslim Origins in South Asia*](http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674660113) is published by Harvard University Press, 2016. 

**Selby Schwartz**, University Writing Program, works in Writing and Gender Studies. In her work with undergraduates in UWP sections, she has pioneered the use of multimedia in composition and rhetoric studies. In course labs held in the Studio, Shelby trains her students to use Mediathread, a multimedia analysis platform built by Columbia’s CCNMTL, to engage in close reading and collective analysis of documentary film footage. This model has since been adopted by other UWP instructors, who now also run digital labs in Studio with their sections.

**Herbert Ginsburg**, Jacob F. Schiff Foundations Professor of Psychology & Education at Teachers College, oversees in-person and online-only sections of courses in early mathematical cognition. He has long worked with CCNMTL on groundbreaking video analysis tools — first the NSF-funded Video Interactions for Teaching and Learning and, more recently, Mediathread. Herb is using the Studio to plan quantitative evaluation of activities in Mediathread, with a group that includes Ryan Baker, Associate Professor of Cognitive Studies in Education at TC; TAs running sections of the course; and the Mediathread development team at Columbia.
